The Apache Kafka is the streaming data store of choice in this class.
Beyond this class, Apache Kafka is one of
those popular streaming data platforms in the industry today.
Kafka provides a simple message queue interface,
on top of its append only log structured storage Medium.
Kafka is a log of events,
where traditional message queues are typically used as job queues.
This concept is a core tenet of how to reason about Kafka.
Kafka and adventure describes something that has happened,
whereas in a traditional message,
or job queue messages are often requests for an action to be performed.
Kafka is also highly scalable,
and offer strict ordering guarantees.
Kafka is fault tolerant,
meaning that in a well configured cluster,
one or more nodes can be lost without losing any data.
Kafka was created at LinkedIn to service
internal stream processing requirements that
couldn't be met by traditional message queuing systems.
The ideas that they capture in Kafka quickly gained popularity,
and since then, Kafka has grown to become one of
the Apache Foundation's most popular projects.
Kafka has been deployed in sizes ranging from
just one node to thousands of nodes successfully.
It is used extensively in production workloads in companies as diverse as Uber,
Apple, Netflix, and Airbnb,
in addition to of course LinkedIn.
The creators of Kafka eventually left LinkedIn to
form their own company called Confluent,
to focus full-time on Kafka and its ecosystem.
Today Confluent continues to introduce excellent and innovative products to
enhance the Kafka ecosystem such as KSQL and Kafka Connect.
We will cover these tools later in this course.
For now, it is worth mentioning though,
Apache Kafka is an open source tool,
as is Kafka Connect,
and some of the other tools in the ecosystem that we'll discuss.
Kafka is also a common data store for many popular data streaming tools today,
including Apache Spark, Flink, and Samza.